 

Local Education and Academics for Reformation and Newcomers Act
Mayoral Legislation of Los Santos

Purpose:

The Mayor’s Office wishes to establish an education path for the Citizens of Los Santos, with the appointment of a Dean of Education to facilitate potential teachers. The Dean will assist educators with any type of location or resource to support their educational pursuits.

Guidelines:

The Dean of Education will set their expectations, examinations, and interviews for educators. The Mayor’s Office only requires that the Dean and their educators be non-violent felons. The Mayor’s Office will establish a baseline fund for the Education Department to ensure that educators are properly compensated for their time, in addition to the class fees. Lastly, the CLL program, as outlined in the License Overhaul Legislation Act, will be transferred to the Education Department once a Dean is appointed. 

Article 1: Deans of Education
1.	Two Deans of Education will be hired by the City Council for the State of San Andreas. The Deans will work together to cover all time zones.
2.	Requirements
a.	Must have a clean record of no felonies or an expungement before being hired as a Dean.
b.	Must go through an interview pending a background check.
■	If the interviewee is a friend of all three sitting Council Members, they must be interviewed by the Mayor and Deputy Mayor.
■	The Mayor has the right to veto the decision of City Council on the interviewed Dean.
c.	The City Council is looking for the following attributes for the Dean of Education.
■	Excellent leadership skills
■	Ability to collaborate with the other Dean and government liaisons
■	Must have expert skills with Office or Google services
■	Communication skills are a must
d.	Commit to being a Dean of Education for a period no less than one Mayoral election cycle.
3.	Application Process
a.	City Council will host an application event to distribute application links for the two Dean of Education positions. Immediately after the application event, the next 24 hours will be dedicated to running background checks. Following the background checks, the City Council will begin reaching out to those who qualified and set up a time to meet for an interview.
b.	City Council members will work with the San Andreas Police Department to run a thorough background check on each applicant.
c.	The applicants who pass a background check will have 24 hours to respond to a phone call or text to schedule an interview.
■	Emails will not be used during this process.
d.	Once two Deans are chosen by the City Council, the City Council will reach out to the two Deans via phone call or text. Each Dean will be given 24 hours to respond. Failure to respond to the Dean's offer will result in loss of the Dean position for that term.
4.	Duties
a.	Attend a minimum of one council meeting a week to give and receive feedback.
b.	Work with each class instructor to verify all class attendees have paid for their respective classes.
c.	Deposit all class funds into the Education fund account and make sure each instructor is paid for hosting the class.
d.	Help facilitate the instructors with anything they need.
e.	Answer any public questions related to any class. If there is a question related to information within a specific class, the Dean is required to reach out to the instructor(s), gather any information requested, and reach back out to the individual asking the question.
5.	Payscale
a.	TBD

Article 2: Classes within Department of Education
1.	First Aid
a.	Facilitated by the Department of Emergency Medical Services.
b.	Every Monday at 9 AM EST and 9 PM EST.
c.	Held at any local clinic.
■	Additional locations determined by the instructor.
d.	Cost per class: $750, non-refundable
2.	Hunting and Fishing Safety Course
a.	Facilitated by the San Andreas Park Rangers.
b.	Held Tuesday at 9 AM EST and 9 PM EST.
c.	Held at Beaver Bush.
■	Additional locations determined by the instructor.
d.	Required for reissuance of a hunting or fishing license.
e.	Cost per class: $1,000, non-refundable
3.	Security and Weapons Course
a.	Facilitated by the Los Santos Police Department.
b.	Every Wednesday at 9 AM EST and 9 PM EST.
c.	Held at Mission Row Police Department (MRPD).
■	Meet the instructor in the lobby.
■	Additional locations determined by the instructor.
d.	Required for security licenses and reissuance of a weapons license.
e.	Cost per class: $1,000, non-refundable
4.	Driving School
a.	Facilitated by Blaine County Sheriff’s Office.
b.	Every Thursday at 9 AM EST and 9 PM EST.
c.	Held at Sandy Shores Sheriff's Office.
■	Meet the instructor in the lobby.
■	Additional locations determined by the instructor.
d.	Required for reissuance of a driver’s license.
e.	Cost per class: $1,000, non-refundable
5.	Additional classes may be added if found applicable to the State of San Andreas.

Article 3: Security Licensing Tests
1.	In order to obtain a security license, each person must take a 10-question test that will be administered at the Sandy City Hall.
2.	A minimum score of 80% is required to pass the test.
3.	The test shall be proctored by the CEOs of each active and licensed security firm.
4.	The City Council will be held responsible for reviewing and scoring all completed tests.
5.	The test will be held every Friday at 9 AM EST and 9 PM EST.
6.	Applicants must complete the following courses to take the security license test.
●	First Aid course, held by EMS
●	Security and Weapons course, held by LSPD
7.	A non-refundable fee of $750 is needed per attempt.

Article 4: Facilitators of Classes
1.	Facilitators will be provided by:
●	EMS
●	LSPD
●	BCSO
●	Park Rangers
2.	Facilitators will receive a percentage of the overall class fee, per class.
3.	Facilitators may be rotated out based on their departmental needs.
4.	Facilitators have the right to cancel or deny entry to a class if any of the following occurs:
●	The class attendance is less than three people.
●	A person poses a threat or disturbance to the class.
5.	A facilitator must report to a Dean of Education if any of the following occurs.
●	A class is cancelled.
●	Anything listed in this article under sub-section 4.

Conclusion:

This legislation is being proposed to introduce the structure of the Department of Education, which facilitates pathways for restoring licenses and educating private security personnel. It also establishes the Department of Education fund, so the instructors can be paid on their time within the classroom.

Council Votes
Council Member #1 - Approve/Deny
Council Member #2 - Approve/Deny
Council Member #3 - Approve/Deny
