
 


Regulated Activities Via Endorsement Act (R.A.V.E. Act)
Mayoral Legislation of Los Santos


Purpose:

To ensure the safe, organized, and lawful coordination of events, protests, or other large-scale gathering events within the City of Los Santos and the greater State of San Andreas.

This Act establishes a clear process for citizens to apply for and receive official approval for events that may impact public spaces, safety, or city services.

Guidelines:

To ensure public safety, any large public event must be pre-approved through an official permitting process. Citizens are responsible for submitting accurate details about their event, securing necessary clearances, and complying with all laws and conditions outlined in their permit. Failure to do so may result in penalties, event shutdowns, or legal action.

Article 1: Application Process
1.	Permits must be applied for at least 24 hours prior to the event.
a.	If the event is a music pop-up event, you don’t need to wait 24 hours; however, you still need a permit signed by a City Council member.
2.	Applications must include the following:
a.	A valid permit number
b.	Name of the Permit Recipient
c.	Location where the permit applies
d.	Start & End Time
e.	Description of the permit application
f.	Equipment Details, if applicable
g.	Special Requirements (Parking, Sound, etc.), if applicable
h.	Signature of Issuer
3.	In case an event is high-risk, events may require a security plan and coordination with recognized security companies, Los Santos Police Department, Blaine County Sheriff’s Office, or Park Rangers.

Article 2: Authority to Issue Permits
1.	Permits may be granted by the Mayor, Deputy Mayor, or City Council members.

Article 3: Permit Requirements
1.	Permits must be visibly carried or electronically accessible to the citizen during the event.
2.	Citizens must comply with all local laws, including noise ordinances and traffic control, if applicable.
3.	Any event without a permit is subject to immediate shutdown by law enforcement, and the organizer(s) are subject to charges.

Article 4: Revoking & Penalties
1.	Permits may be revoked at any time at the discretion of the Mayor or City Council.
2.	Hosting an unpermitted event may result in fines, event seizure, and potential arrest.

Special Cases:
1.	Emergency protests or events may be fast-tracked for approval under exceptional circumstances.
2.	Events involving legal firearms or fireworks require special clearance and additional security from law enforcement.

Some events may be exempt from the need for a permit for various reasons. These include:

●	City Organised Event(s)
●	Major Pre-Planned ‘Staged’ Event(s)
●	Events held within a private licensed establishment
●	Small-scale busking events held at pre-approved Busking spots
●	More to be determined if necessary
Violations & Penalties:

Disclaimer: Sentencing recommendations below can be adjusted at the discretion of the Office of the Commissioner. Refer to the “Don’t Do Crime Act” on penal code changes.

Penal Code: Hosting an Unpermitted Event
Description: Any individual or organization that conducts an event, protest, or other large-scale gathering without an approved permit from the City of Los Santos.
Burdens of Proof:
●	The event occurred in a public or regulated space,
●	No valid permit was issued to the organizer(s).
Class: Misdemeanor
Fine: $2,000
Jail: 30 months

Penal Code: Event Conduct Violations
Description: Any permitted event that results in unlawful behavior, such as illegal drug use, violence, unlicensed commercial activity, or reckless endangerment.
Burdens of Proof:
●	A specific law was violated during the event
●	The organizer either encouraged, allowed, or failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the illegal conduct.
Class: Felony
Fine: $4,000
Jail: 80 months

Enforcement:

A permit should not cost the event organizer, and permits can be in one of two forms: major events set in the city calendar, OR more sudden events/protests can receive a physical permit.

The R.A.V.E. Act and the permits are designed to protect lawful expressive activities, such as events, protests, or other large-scale gatherings, by providing a structured process for authorization. A valid permit shows the city’s approval of the event’s time, place, and manner. This does not legalize or justify any behavior that would otherwise be considered criminal. All participants and organizers must remain fully subject to city, state, and federal laws. Any violation of those laws during a permitted event may result in criminal charges regardless of the permit’s existence.

A permit will work alongside the Pours & Penalties Act, with an event permit, the handling and distribution of alcohol is allowed.
