 
Taking Animals Conscientiously without Overharvesting
Mayoral Legislation of Los Santos

Proposal: 

To establish a defined set of boundaries as to what is acceptable while recreationally or commercially hunting in Los Santos. To establish safety equipment and weapons regulations and limitations, and to establish clearly defined bag limits for any given hunting session.  

Guidelines:

Article 1: Hunting Requirements
1.	Any person hunting recreationally or commercially is required to have an up-to-date and valid hunting license as well as a weapons license.
2.	A hunting license must be obtained from the San Andreas Park Rangers by completing a hunter's safety course. Refer to the “L.E.A.R.N. Act”.

Article 2: Designated Hunting Grounds
1.	Hunting shall only be allowed in specified areas. Taking the game outside of the designated hunting areas is prohibited and may lead to prosecution. While hunting, these areas are defined on your hunting map and are color-coded in red and blue. Hunting outside of these areas will be considered illegal, and violators will be prosecuted. Your hunting license may be subject to revocation for violation of this decree.

Article 3: Domestic, Non-Domestic, and Endangered Animals
1.	Domestic Animals
a.	Cat
b.	Cow
c.	Dog
d.	Pig
2.	Non-Domestic Animals
a.	Boar
b.	Buck
c.	Doe
d.	Rabbit
3.	Endangered Animals
a.	Cougar
b.	Coyote
c.	Leopard
d.	Mountain Lion
e.	Panther

Article 4: Proper Hunting Wear
1.	As per the “Wear Your C.U.P. Act,” all active hunters are required to wear a high-visibility vest.

Article 5: Approved Weapons
1.	The hunting rifle is the only acceptable option for taking game. Hunting with licensed legal handguns or any illegal firearms is prohibited and may lead to prosecution.

Article 6: Harvesting Game
1.	Any game harvested by anything other than what is listed in Article 5, Section 1 is prohibited. All game must be taken ethically with a hunting rifle and harvested professionally. 

Article 7: Hunting Bag Limit
1.	Bag limits for any given session of hunting will be 100 units of unprocessed game meat per person. Having more than 100 units on your person or in your hunting vehicle, or the two combined amount, will be considered a violation, and the person(s) in violation will be issued a citation based on the exceeded amount. Exceeding 1-9 will be a citation. Exceeding 10-19 will result in a higher citation. Exceeding 11-19 would be a misdemeanor. Exceeding by more than 20+ will result in a misdemeanor charge.

Article 8: Revocation of a Hunting License
1.	Any of the above violations that result in a license revocation will result in a mandatory 7-day waiting period before you can reapply for a hunting license. Before obtaining your hunting license, you will need to attend a hunter safety course, which will be held by the San Andreas Park Rangers as per Article 1, Section 2.

Article 9: Hunting Inspection
1.	All individual participants in hunting, defined as (a) being in a hunting area, and (b) utilizing a weapon, whether correct or incorrect, to hunt animals, shall be subject to bag limit inspections as defined in Article 6. Only the San Andreas Park Rangers can conduct these searches.

Penalties and Violations:

Disclaimer: Sentencing recommendations below can be adjusted at the discretion of the Office of the Commissioner. Refer to the “Don’t Do Crime Act” on penal code changes.

Penal Code: Hunting without a License or Proper Firearm
Description: Any person to be found hunting, with or without a rifle, in designated hunting areas without a valid hunting license.
Burdens of Proof:
●	Does not possess a valid hunting license
AND
●	Found with any amount of unprocessed meat
OR
●	Hunting with an unauthorized weapon
Class: Principal
Fine: $1,000
Jail: 30 months

Penal Code: Fishing/Hunting Outside of a Designated Area
Description: Any person found hunting outside of designated fishing/hunting areas.
Burdens of Proof:
●	Found outside of designated fishing/hunting areas
●	Found with materials for fishing or hunting and fish, jellyfish, or unprocessed meat
●	Established evidence that fishing/hunting was conducted outside of the designated zones
Class: Felony
Fine: $2,500
Jail: 35 months

 
Penal Code: Poaching
Description: Unlawful hunting, capturing, or killing of domestic or endangered animals without a valid permit, outside of regulated hunting zones or seasons, or with cruel or excessive methods.
Burdens of Proof:
●	Found outside of designated hunting areas
●	Found with materials for hunting and unprocessed meat
●	Established evidence that the hunting was conducted outside of the designated zones
Class: Felony
Fine: $2,500
Jail: 35 months

Penal Code: Hunting Over Limits
Description: Any person found hunting over the bag limit in designated hunting areas.
Burdens of Proof:
●	Found in possession of 101 or more units of unprocessed meat
●	Found with all necessary materials needed to go hunting
●	Is not part of a transportation company or meat service industry
Charges:
●	Principal - $1,000 - 0 Months - Citation - Any person found hunting over the bag limit in designated hunting areas. (101+)
●	Principal - $2,000 - 0 Months - Citation - Any person found hunting over the bag limit in designated hunting areas. (110+)
●	Principal - $3,000 - 10 Months - Misdemeanor - Any person found hunting over the bag limit in designated hunting areas. (120+)

Business Exemption List:

Certain businesses within the City may employ citizens as registered commercial hunters. These commercial hunters are exempt only from the Bag Limit, wherein they would be subject to a limit of 300 units of unprocessed meat per person. Anything exceeding this amount while operating as a commercial hunter will immediately be subject to the charges listed in Article 7. This will also be updated with new businesses as they come to the Mayor's office and apply for this exemption.

Exempt Businesses: 
Prime Cuts LLC - Owned by Taco Prince

Conclusion: 

This legislation is being proposed in order to introduce legislation to protect and sustain the wildlife populations of Los Santos by introducing guidelines for safe and ethical harvesting of game meat. It is also intended to establish proper safety guidelines and standards of conduct while hunting and introduce repercussions for non-compliance. 

Council Votes
Council Member #1 - Approve/Deny
Council Member #2 - Approve/Deny
Council Member #3 - Approve/Deny

